
### 1. What is the internet? 
- The internet is a general purpose, packet switched network of computing devices. Each of these devices are connected communication links
	- There are various types of communication links(coaxial cables, fiber optic cables, radio waves). Each of these communication link can be compared using a metric called transmission rate
- Types of computer networks based on scale
	- LAN - interconnect devices of a particular domain (example an office building, a businesses)
	- Wireless LAN
	- WAN - interconnects LAN
	- Private WAN
	- Enterprise network
- Types of networks based on how it is build
	- Overlay networks 
	- Software defined networks
#### 1.1 Defining the internet based on the devices in comprises
- Network edge: End systems
	- Systems that are used by end users that can run application
	- Eg. Laptop, mobile phones, TV, Smart Home devices
- Access Network devices:
	- Devices that connect the end systems to the network core
		- Typically Switches, wireless access points are access network devices
	- These access devices are provided by an corporate ISP or university ISP
- Network core: 
	- Routers
	- Gateways
#### 1.2 Defining the internet based on the service it provides to applications
- Internet provides various services to applications
- What are these applications? 
	- These are applications like email, social networks, instant messaging that run in the end systems
	- The internet provides the infrastructure and services to send the data from one end system to another
-  How do devices send data over the link? 
	- This is done by using an Internet API. This API will follow a set of rules(protocols) based on the service it provides 
	- This is defined by a protocol. The protocol defines 
		- How to preprocess the data before sending it over the internet. 
		- How the end system is located
		- What happens after sending the data
		- How the receiver preprocesses the data
		- in what order the data needs to be sent
	- How to know what a protocol does? 
		- These are defined in RFCs
		- These RFCs are maintained by the internet engineering task force