
### 1. Network Core
- Network core is made of interconnected packet switches
- Approaches to move data through network
	- Packet switching
	- Circuit switching 
#### 1.1 Packet switching
- What are packets?
	- Each message is split into packets
	- Each packet is sent independently over the network 
- What are the characteristics of a packet switched network? 
	- No Physical resources are reserved
	- Advantage: There can be more number of users compared to circuit switching 
	- Disadvantage: No guarantee on network performance due to queuing delay and packet losses 
		- #TODO How to evaluate network performance
- What is packet forwarding?
	- Sending an incoming packet to it's destination
- What are the types of packet forwarding?
	- There are two types of packet forwarding
		- Store and forward
			- Store entire packet before forwarding
		- Cut through or pass through
			- Store till headers are received, once destination is deciphered, forward the packet
- How does the routers know where to forward the packet?
	- Using the forwarding table(local to each routers)
	- The forwarding table is populated using a routing algorithm
		- Routing algorithm is common to all the routers that share the same edge router #TODO (Verify if true)
#### 1.2 Circuit Switching
- What is circuit switching?
	- Each pair of sender and receiver has to establish a circuit/connection that reserves resources(physical links, buffers) along the path of the sender and receiver
	- When are these resources reserved?
		- Before the communication btw sender and receiver takes place
	- How long are these resources reserved?
		- Reserved till the communication btw sender and receiver completes
- Pros: Guaranteed transmission rate(because resources are mutually exclusive and reserved)
- Cons
	- As resources are mutually exclusive, the maximum number of end systems that can communicate simultaneously has a limit
	- Resource under utilization: Resource needs to allocated even if the end systems are idle
- How is a circuit implemented?
	- Time division multiplexing
	- Frequency division multiplexing

#### 1.3 Comparing Circuit Switching and Packet switching 
- Scenario
	- Lets take the case where a 1 Mbps link is shared by n users.
	- Each user generates a data for 10% of the time at a constant rate of 100 Kbps
	- For 90% of the time the user is idle
- Circuit switching:
	- Maximum number of users = Max link rate/demand for each user = 10 ^ 6 / 10^ 5 = 10 users
	- When there is a 11th user, they cannot use the link as all the link bandwidth is already allocated
	- Furthermore, when only one user is active, the active user cannot use the entire bandwidth
- Packet switching:
	- The Maximum number of users that can use a packet switched network will be more than the maximum number of users in a circuit switched network
	- This is because most users are inactive for long periods of time and the probability of many users being active at a time is less 
	- Example: Let the total number of users be 35, when 11 or more users are active simultaneously, there will be congestion. The probability of 11 or more users simultaneously using the network p(11 or more users) = 1 - p(at most 10 users) = 0.00042
	- p(at most 10 users) = summation of p(i users active), 0 <= i <=10 = 0.99957
		- p(i users active) = <sup>35</sup>C<sub>i</sub> * p<sup>i</sup> * (1-p)<sup>35-i</sup>
		- Here p is the probability a user is active