
### 1. What are sockets?
- An application can access the network using the socket API
- In which layer does sockets operate?
	- Between the application and transport layer
- Socket family
	- There are various families of sockets each for a different purpose
	- The AF_INET socket is for internet communication  
	- The UNIX socket is for IPC(inter process communication)
- Types of internet sockets
	- Stream: connection oriented 
	- Datagram: connectionless 
	- There are other socket like raw sockets
- When creating a socket using the socket API, the function will return the socket file descriptor. 
	- This is used to represent the socket file in the Process control block

### 2. Socket API: Things to remember
#### 2.1. Converting host to network byte order
- Notes
	- Network order: Big-Endian
	- Host order: Little-Endian
- Header files 
	- ``` #include<netinet/in.h> ```: Has the hton and ntoh functions, this can be used without specifying the address family. The length of ip address in str format is available in this header as INET_ADDRSTRLEN and INET6_
	- ``` #include<arpa/inet.h> ```: Has the inet_pton and inet_ntop functions, this is used to convert ip address from readable string to bytes. These functions work only with numeric IP address. To perform host lookup, use getadddrinfo()
#### 2.2. Tools to create socket address
- Notes
	- Before creating a socket, we can specify the socket type, family, and also provide options to do DNS lookups to fill the ip address
	- These options are specified in struct addrinfo
		- The struct addrinfo has another struct sockaddr. This is used to hold the socket address and socket family. For internet the socket family will be AF_INET or AF_INET6. This addrinfo can hold to address of any socket (like IPC socket)
		- The sockaddr can be cast to sockaddr_in, which is a struct specific to the internet
	- The getaddrinfo() function is used to get the available socket addresses and perform IP lookup
		- The first argument is the IP address or Domain name
		- The second argument is the port number specified in string "5555" or the service used specified in string "tcp"
- Header files: 
	- ``` #include<sys/socket.h> ``` : Has the struct sockaddr and sockaddr_storage (can hold both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, this struct is simlar to sockaddr, but larger in size)
	- ``` #include<netinet/in.h>``` : Has the struct sockaddr_in and in6
#### 2.3 Creating and binding a socket
- Notes
	- This is done using the socket() function call, this requires the address family, the socket type and the protocol(0 for default protocol)
		- Notice we have not yet provided the socket address that we obtained from the getaddrinfo as argument, This will only create the socket, but not associate it with an address and port
	- To attach a socket to a port, use the bind() function
		- Provide the socket descriptor, the socket address and the the addr len as function arguments
	- To reuse the socket address, set it in the socket options using the setsockopt() function
		- Provide the socket descriptor, the socket option level as socket, the socket option as reuse, 1, size of int as the arguments
			- SOL_SOCKET = Socket Option Level, socket
			- SO_REUSEADDR = Socket Option, reuse the socket
- Header files
	- ``` #include <sys/sockets.h> ```
#### 2.4 Connecting using connect() 
- Notes
	- This is done using the connect() function. This function requires the socketfd, the server addrinfo and the server addr len
- Headers
	- sys/sockets.h 
#### 2.5 Listening on port
- Notes
	- Bind the socket using the bind function
	- listen() will look for connection request to the socket. It accepts the socketFD and the number of connection request to the socket as arguments
- Headers
	- sys/sockets.h
#### 2.6 Accepting a connection
- Notes
	- accept incoming connection using the connect() function call, this returns a new socketFD with which communication can take place. This function accepts the listening socketFD, client's struct sockaddr and the size of struct sockaddr as arguments
- Headers
	- sys/sockets.h
#### 2.7 send/receive
- Notes
	- send() and recv() are for SOCK_STREAM
		- socketfd, message, len, int flags are the arguments for send
		- send returns the number of bytes sent, if this is less than the message size, use the send function again
		- recv args: socketfd, buffer, buffer len, flags
		- recv returns the number of bytes read from the socket, if 0 server has closed the connection
	- sendTo() and recvFrom() are for SOCK_DGRAM
		- #TODO Using sendTo() in a connection oriented socket
- Headers
	- sys/sockets.h

### 3. Raw sockets
- Raw sockets are used to implement IP or link layer protocols in the application layer
- When raw sockets are used, we associate the raw socket with a protocol level(AF_INET for network layer, AF_PACKET for link layer) and a protocol
	- Example network layer protocols are IP, ICMP
	- Example link layer protocols: ethernet
- Example when a raw socket with icmp protocol is used, the sender needs to construct the ICMP headers and send them
	- If the header included option is set, then the client will also need to construct the IP headers for the packet
- In the receiver side, the entire IP packet is received, the receiver should process the IP headers, perform checksum validations and then extract the message that it received
	- In contrast to the stream socket, we receive only the data

### FAQ
- What is the difference between private and loopback addresses? 
	- Private IP addresses are reserved addresses that cannot be used for routing in a public internet. 
	- Loopback addresses are a set of reserved addresses that is used to address the same host. 
	- When a looopback address is used to create a socket, the packet will be redirected to the host without reaching the link layer. 
		- The packet reaches the IP layer. When loopback address is used, the packet will not be sent to the link layer, instead just sent back to the host
	- When a private IP address is used to create a server socket, the client should use the same IP to connect to the server host. This is only possible if both the client and server are in the same subnet(i.e. connected to the same network)
		- What if both are not in the same subnet?
			- As mentioned earlier, private IP cannot be used to route in a public network. If there is no server in that subnet, we will get a ICMP error of host not reachable(when private IP is used, only the hosts in the same network are considered)